# ComSci 311 Programming Projects
## Programming Project 1: Wikipedia Crawler
The wikipedia crawler is a program that uses breadth-first searching to create a list of related wikipedia pages given a starting wiki page and a page limit. The crawler has two modes, focused and unfocused. Unfocused mode simply does a BFS of all wiki pages using web links as the edges between the nodes (wiki pages) until the page limit is reached. Focused mode takes in an additional parameter, a list of topics used to cull the search results. After the crawler visits a new page, it is given a score based on the number of occurances of topic words. After scoring, pages are placed into a priority queue (implemented using a max-heap) and then removed from there when moving onto the next page. Both focused and unfocused mode only look at links to other english wikipedia pages within the main body of the article, ignoring all those navigational links which are present on every wikipedia page.

## Programming Project 2: Image Processing
The image processor had two main parts. First, I had to make a class, WGraph, that represented a weighted graph. A filename is passed into the constructor of the WGraph and a new graph is created from the file, which contains edge weight data. The WGraph used versions Djikstra's algorithm to implement three pathfinding functions. I implemented Vertex-Vertex shortest path, Vertex-Set shortest path, and Set-Set shortest path. These three functions also utilized the priority queue from the first project, except I had to modify it to be a min-heap queue instead. After creating the weighted graph function, I had to make the actual image processor, which utilizes the WGraph. The image processor takes in an image and has one main public function which lets you reduce the width of the image by a specified amount. The process for width-reduction starts by analyzing the image and creating an importance matrix which contains the sum of the row and column significance of each pixel in the image. Then, a WGraph is created from the importance matrix and a shortest path is found from the top row of the image to the bottom row of the image. This path is made up of the least important pixels in the image, so they are removed. This process is applied iteratively for each pixel the width is reduced by. 
